DIGEST OF CASES
(1412
(1411
LOCAL GOVERNMENT FRANCHISE con
LOCAL GOVERNMENT EXISTING OFFICER¬
continued.
one room to another, or arrange to have more
ment (Irland)
than one occupant of a single room. She
Act, 1898, an existing officer,
was transferred to the rural district council, and
could refuse to allow a nun to receive a visitor
in her room, demand admission to the room,
subsequently, by an order of the Local Gover¬
ment Board, an urban district was carved out
and require the nuns to give up the keys.
of the rural district, and the urban council
The nuns took their meals together in the
having taken over the control of all matters
Refectory, and occupied in common other
within the urban district, abolished the office of
general rooms in the convent; they received
the officer in question, who thereupon claimed
no remuneration, and were under no contract
compensation from the urban council, on the
of employment. The premises were vested in
ground that he had been transferred to them
the Roman Catholic Bishop of Clogher, the
parish priest, and the senior curate of E., all
in pursuance of the Act Held, that section 115
for the time being, upon trust for the benefit
(19) of the Act contemplates one transfer only
and not a series of transfers ; and as the urban
of the Roman Catholic inhabitants of E. The
council was not the body to which the officer in
convent was governed by rules subject to the¬
supreme
question was primarily transferred under the
authority
of the Bishop Held,
that the nuns were not inhabitant occupiers of
Act, that body could not be held responsible for
separate dwellings within the meaning
compensation. Quare, whether the rural council
of
were liable.

section 3 of the Representation of the People
R. (Ruane) v. Ballina Urban
Act. Semble, the nuns did not occupy their
Council K. B., 35 1. L. T. R. 71; 1 N. I. J. R. 71
19.
rooms by virtue of any office, service, or employ¬
Waste water inspector Dublin Cor¬
poration Act, 1900, ss. 20 and 21—Clontarf Loca¬
ment. Bannon v. Hanrahan
Act, 1869— Salary.
A waste water inspector
App., 1900) 2 I. R. 455
employed by the Clontarf Town Commissioners
2.—
Towns Improvement (Irland) Act,
to inspect for excessive use or waste of water
1854. Section 22 defines the qualifications
and obliged to attend daily thereto, being re¬
of voters at the election of Town Commis¬
munerated at the rate of 35. a week, and not
sioners: Every person of full age who is
obliged to keep fixed hours or to do manua
the immediate lessor, &c., also very person
labour, is not an ordinary workman, but an
of full age who shall have occupied as tenant
.
existing officer
within the meaning
of
or owner, or joint occupier, or shall have been
section 21 of the Dublin Corporation Act, 1900,
the immediate lessor of any lands, &c. Held
and therefore entitled to the superannuation
(Monahan, C.J., Pigot, C.B., and Ball, J.,
annuity therein mentioned. Cadle v. Dublin
dissentientibus, reversing the decision of the
Corporation
K. B., 37 J. L. T. R. 82
Queen's Bench (17 I. C. L. 157) that women.
though possessing the qualifications mentioned
LOCAL GOVERNMENT
EXPLOSIVES ACTS.
in these sections, were not eligible to vote at
By-laws. By-law 28, made by a harbour
such election. R. v. Crosthwaite
authority under the Explosives Act, 1875, pro
Ex. Ch.; 1864) 17 I. C. L. R. 157, 463
vided that fires, lights, and smoking should not
3.
Woman freeholder rated at 25 and
be allowed under certain circumstances; by-
upwards Registration (Irland) Act, 1898, s.
law 32 provided that persons engaged in loading
1
(2). A woman freeholder rated at 5 and
unloading or conveying
explosives should
upwards and in all other respects qualified to
abstain from acts likely to cause explosion, and
have her name retained upon the register is
should prevent other persons from committing
not disqualified by reason of being a woman.
such acts, and that such other persons com¬
Bailey, Appellant: Carmichael Ferrall, Re¬
mitting any such acts after being warned, should
spondent
App., 48 I. L. T. R. 170
be deemed to have committed a breach of the
LOCAL GOVERNMENT-LOCAL GOVERN¬
by-law. An engineer on board a ship with a
MENT BOARD.
general cargo lying alongside a ship being loaded
Application to quash decision of Appeal to
with explosives, lit a fire and was convicted by
Local Government Board Frontage expenses¬
the Magistrates under by law 28 Held, that
Demand by sanitary authority— Estoppel-Publi¬
tho conviction should be quashed, by law 28

Health Act, 1878, ss. 8 and 268.
Where a
being conversant with persons in authority, and
person aggrieved by the decision of the sanitary
not with persons in the position of the defen-
authority appeals by memorial to the Local
dant, who were dealt with under by law 32
Government Board under, the provisions of
Campbell v. Arklow Harbour Commissioners
section 268 of the Public Health Act, 1878, it is
K. B., 3 N. I. J. R. 11
not open to him afterwards to contend, on pro
ceedings to quash the order of the Local Gover¬
LOCAL GOVERNMENT FRANCHISE
ment Board, that that body had no jurisdiction
Inhabitant occuper Convent uns
to entertain his appeal. R. (Thynne) v. Loca¬
Service franchise Office, service, or employ¬
Government Board
K. B., 37 I. L. T. R. 89;
ment. The claimants were nuns residing at a
4 N. I. J. R. 8
convent in the town of E. Each of them
occupied a separate bedroom, and was subject
Vesting of workhouse in 37 I. L. T. R. 41
to the control of the Lady Superiores, who
3 N. I. J. R. 38
could at any time change the occupants from
See Poor Law Buildings.