369
io tle CONDITION of the POORER CLASSES in IRELAND.
allowances on this account, still it appears, that a system of English husbandry, if pursued on
such a scale as is usual in well cultivated districts, would be perfectly inadequate to furnish
sufficient labour. It is only by a system of small farms, carried on almost exclusively by
pade hisbandry, that any approach can be made towards providing constant employment
for so dense a population as that of the parish of Drumcliffe. It will appear from what has
been adduced in evidence, that, with the exception of the northern part of the barony, so
little bog remains to be reclaimed, that the landlords are very tenacious of it, and restrict
their tenants in its use. Lord Palmerston possesses a large tract of it on his estate, which
he is extensively engaged in reclaiming On some portions of it where it is 30 feet deep, and
composed of what is termed winte bog (that whch leaves light white ashes on being burned),
the cost has far exceeded the value of the land in its improved state, and according to Mr.
Lynch, his lordshp’s agent, has in some cases amounted to &16 and E25 per acre. The
work, however, is performed in a very effectual mamner; it is first drained with leading, eross,
and sod drains, at an expense of &3 or E4 per acre, according to circumstances; it is then
turned over with the spade, and gravelled to the depth of four inches; (within the last 18
mouths the cost of this has been reduced by means of a railroad); after remaining in that
state to settle, 130 barrels of roche-lime are applied per acre, at the expense of 10d. per
barrel without the carriage, and the lime, gravel, and four inches of the surface of the bog, are
well mixed together with the spade. If it is not sown with rape to be fed off with sheep in
the spring, it is manured with sea weed, 40 loads to the acre, each load costing 1s., and the
carting amounting to &1. 4s. per acre; and it is then planted with wheat and oats. After one
crop has heen taken it is let to a tenant at a rent of 12s. 6d. per acre only. Lord Palmerston
has turned his attention to reclaiming the deep bogs solely, those in which the turf is shallow
are left to be reclaimed by tenants.
The dreffing sands which at one or two places are making dreadful inroads on the
cultivated lands of the barony still remain to be noticed. To the north of Lissadell, the
townlands of Ballinadan and Ballintemple, belonging to the Bishoprick of Elphin, and those of
Ballymalurry, and pait of Aidtarmon, the property of Sir I. G. Booth, Bart, within the last
few years have been entirely covered to a depth varying from one to ten feet. The place was
visited by the Assistant Commissioner, and a more desolate scene cannot be well imagined.
The houses all of them embedded as high as the eaves, many of them entirely covered, and
with the roof broken in by the incumbent weight, the only place of ingress and egress being
through an aperture in the latter; and an extent exceeding 500 hundred acres, the greater
part of which was fine and cultivated land; now presenting an unvaried surface of white dry
barren sand.
Sixty- four families still remain at Ballintemple, the men mostly earning a livelihood on
the sea side. Five acres only now remain to them capable of tillage, although they formerly
paid cess for 105, and at the last levy were charged to that tax for 15 acres.
A few days previous to the visit of the Assistant Commissioner an ass and a cow belonging
to these persons were driven for rent, which is still expected from them. A small portion of
that land which was not covered too thickly by the sand was partially green with potatoes,
the produce of some which were not picked last year, a drift having come upon them while
hey were clearing the land of the crop.
If an attempt be not speedily made to arrest the progress of the sand it will extend very
rapidly, and, from its increased extent, the stopping it will become every year a work of
greater difficulty. It is probable that the adjoining and very populous townland of Bally-
connell (also belonging to the Bishoprick of Elphin) will be the next that will suffer. Without
a combined effort on the part of the proprictors it will be useless to attempt a remedy, as it will
be of no avail for one proprictor to endeayour to reclaim while his land is subject to the sand
drifting from the lands of the other. On the Bishop's land, being under lease, it is not
expected that any attempt will he made.
On the estate of Lord Palmerston, the further progress of a blowing sand of this description
has been successfully arrested. More than 200 acres (in the townland of Mullaghmore, in
the parish of Ahamlsh) which had been covenred, were planted with bent (drundo areno,a),
at an expense of more than &5 per acre.7 This has effectually stopped the increase of the
evil. The sand is now becoming more firm and solid, and small spots of white clover are
appearing on it. The bent was at first planted in rows and was found quite ineffectual, as
the wind blowing in one direction cleared the sand out of the intervals between the rows of
bent, and the next cross wind broke it down. Planting it irregularly was then adopted, and
sufficiently answered the purpose. On another sand covering the Stand Hill near Knocknarea,
the row planting of the bent has been adopted and found of no avail.
The planting of these tracts in this manner would prove a very profitable expenditure of
labour and capital, as there is no calenlating where the eval, if not arrested, will stop. To the
poorer classes it would be a great relief, as the employment would be afforded in winter, when
they have httle labour in their own holding to engage them, the moisture of that season being
the best adapted for the operation of planting the bent.
The hay crop is allowed to stand too long before it is cut, both to its own inury and to
that of the aftermath. It is also left far too long in the fields in cocks of various sizes before
it is put into stack. The weather for the last three weeks (1st August 1835) has been so
extremely fine in this pait of Ireland that all the hay in the country might have been made
4 From the experience which has been gained the work can now be performed at a much less
price. Mr. Dodwell states, that an offer has been made to him to undertake to plant the bent at a
htlle more than &1 per acre.
3 B E B
Appendix (F.)
OBSERVATIONS
ON THE NATURE
AND STATE OF
AGRICULTURE.
Connaught.
County Shgo.
Rer. Chailes Clarke,
Bar. Carbery.
Leinster.
County Dublin.
John Power, Exd.
Bar Bolrothery.