Exch: Men: Polle.
hands of the King, until the lawful age of the heir
foresaid; and if it shall happen the foresaid
heir to die before he comes to lawful age, we will
that the fores Bishop shall have the custod
of the lands and tnements foresaid until the la¬
ful age of the heir being this within age, and so
from her to be until auch heir shall come to
lawful age. Dated at Dublin, 28 July, 8 Richard II.
849 Richard II. m. 41 (1384)
Thomas de la ffeld, son and heir of Reginal de la
Math
feld, one of the pledges and mancapture of Hugh
Cretage, late Chef Sarjeant of Cross Meath, puts
in his place Robert Kysok against the King in a
ple of account.
849 Richard II., m. 46: (1384)
Writ to the Sheriff of Kilkenny to distrain Robert
de la....... (torn.)
89 Richard II., m. 48 (1384)
Dublin
rit to the Sheriff of Dublin to distrain William
de la ffelde and Richard de la ffelde, and Richard
White of Killest and Nicholas de la ffelde, pledges
and mancepts of the foresaid William and Rich¬
ard, by all their lands and chattels within his
blick, to be before the Barons of the Exequer
of Ireland at Charlach from Easter day in 15 days,
to render account of the custod of all the lands
and tenements in Skedouth and Wymyllon in the con¬
ty foresaid which were John de la ffeld is deceased,
who held in capite, and which after the death of
the said John and by reason of the minor estate of
the heir of the said John were in our hands, ame¬
ly, from the 7th day of January, in the seventh
year of our rein, and silence, and for which the
fores Richard and William have not yet account
ed. Dated 10 February, 8 Richard II. Reference
to the streat of the Chancery of Ireland for the
7 year of Richard II.
—
The addendum is of great interest
as going to show that the Chance
records, which of course constitute
a separate series, contain further
enrolmente relating to this state.
8 à 9 Richard II., m. 40 (1384)
Meth
Writ to the Sheriff of Meath to distrain William
Nugent, administrator of the good and chattels
which were Henry Lynham's deceased, and Friar Thom
as Sourlag, Abbt of the house of St. Thomas the
Martyr next Dolin, and Nicholas Serle, pledges and
mandators of the foresa William, to be before
-34
15