DEBATES.
289
1790.)
the assertion was, “ that no man supported goverment but
those who either held places or pensions;” he did not believe
the fact: but to put it out of all doubt he declared that the sup-
port he gave goverment was the support of an independent
man, who was convinced that government were acting for the
honour and interest of the nation, and so long as he should re-
main of that opinion, so long would he support them. As to
the resolution before the House, he resisted it as a part of that
system of defaming govemment, on which the opposition of the
present session had uniformly acted; he held it to be beneath the
dignity of parliament, and trifling with this great public trust,
to sit day after day, listening to declamation, and ultimately to
bring forward charges sounded on vague report,
Mr. DUNN said, if the honourable gentleman meant to say
the privilege of the crown was so sacred as not to become the
subject of parliamentary enquiry, he held a language dangerous
to the constitution; —it reminded him of Lord Clarendon, and
asked if it was not for advising a michievous exercise of an un¬
doubted prerogative of the crown, that he was impeached? If
he exercised his privilege contrary to the good of his people, the
minister who advised that measure becomes responsible to the
people; he contended for the propriety of the committee of en-
quiry on the ground of common fame; and he asked, if it was
in common report that any set of men had a design upon the
life of his majesty, would the House hesitate to go into a com-
mittee on that report?—Well, he faid, as he was attached to his
sovereign, yet speaking constitutionally, he was still more at-
tached to that third branch of the constitution which must live
for ever; when even the existence of that branch was at stake,
he thought there should be no besitation on the mode of pre-
serving it; and if gentlemen on the other side shrunk from the
enquiry, the necessary conclusion must be that they doubtless
were guilty.
Mr. CURRAN said, there were two questions, first, whether
the sale of peerages for seats in the commons was an offence im-
peachable; and secondly, whether there were grounds sufficient
for a parliamentary proceeding. As to the first, he said, thio
was a new question different from any of the preceding ones of
the session. Questions of mere expence were to be tried by ex-
pediency, on which many might differ, and all pretend to differ;
but this was a question of crime on which none could differ, that
were not determined to be blind. He went at large into the na-
ture of the offence, as betraying the trust confided in the viceroy
by the crown, as defiling the peerage, as selling in effect a judi-
cial office, and as subverting the independence of the commons.
No man, said he, will dare to deny the abstract criminality.—